# Spellmonger-BN-Pariah-Edit
Foulman has been working on a Fantasy total conversion mod for DDA, but prior to that had several interesting projects. Spellmonger, a magic mod based on a series of books that I'm sadly not familiar with, was one of them. I had to fold, spindle, and mutilate it a bit but it works (and quite well). If you like this, please, PLEASE go and star Foulman's original repository, as their work is EXCELLENT. (https://github.com/foulman/spellmonger)
Pariah's changes:
- Spellmonger had a LOT of skills for various types of magic (Photomancy, Warding, Warmagic, Alchemy, Enchanting, and more). These are very awesome, but currently don't have a full suite of spells to take advantage of/justify them. Based on that, I converted everything over to the general Spellcraft skill and saved the other skills in a .txt doc so they can be easily reimplemented later. Spellcraft is duplicated here so you don't have to use Magiclysm if you don't want to.
- Speaking of, I removed the blacklist for Magiclysm content. Easily reimplemented if you want it, just grab the original mod and copy from there.
- Had to smack the Scrying spell over the head with a stick, much to my dismay. It does work, though.
- Added some spellbooks and spell scrolls along with item group info so the cool magic stuff actually spawns into the world. Note that if you're using Magiclysm you shouldn't need it, as the Magiclysm books will spawn the Spellmonger books just fine (or should anyway).
- Removed the MAGE token from characters for now, as it was there to allow item crafting based on character class (still in the items.json, just not on any profession). Again, can be reimplemented later.
- Blackfire Burn might be a tetch too strong. Balance isn't my thing.

So what does this mod offer? Well, it lends itself to a much more action-packed, run'n'gun style of magic casting than default Magiclysm does. If you want to jump right into that, grab the Novice Warmage profession (4 pts). It comes with a broad base of the mod's spells. Basically, the offensive spells have a higher casting time than most Magiclysm offerings (this might need to be adjusted for balance), but there are 'hung' spell variations that spawn consumable spells in your inventory. Meaning that in your down time you can load up on offensive magic and have it ready to go in the field. There's also a handy Mana recovery spell, small amount of mana for a small amount of fatigue - meaning that you can hole up for a minute, recharge your mana, and either drop some healing on yourself or get back to the killing. Damage wise they aren't going to imbalance anything, and there's some useful crowd control and utility spells within as well.
